# Myvm

VM and assembler loosly inspired by the OVERTURE architecture featured in the game Turing Complete.

## Overview

This repo is divided into 2 parts. The original parser and runtime written in Rust, and the website that uses the
orignal parsers alongside its own runtime in order to dynamically run your programs.

## Use Cases

Might be useful for learning Assembler, or for learning about how ASCII/Utf-8 work.

I created this mostly for fun.

## Website

### Features

- a Code editor powered by monaco-editor with syntax highlighting.
- Save and load your programs to and from localStorage.
- Includes several showcase programs that shows off the assemblers features, and shows how the runtime works.
- Half finished Docs.
- View the generated bytecode for your program, aswell as what it looks like after macro expansion.
- Run your programs, and step through them one instruction at a time.
- You can dynamically give input to your program through the STDIN feature which emulates STDIN.
- Uses UTF-8 as the output, which means that you can print emoji.

## Rust native assembler and runtime:

### Features

- Assemble, Assemble and run, or Run your programs.
- Use dynamic input with stdin or read your input from a file or directly from the program.
- Runtime is much faster.
- Haven't tested emoji support. Might not work.

## TODO

Here are some things that are yet to be added/fixed. Pull requests are welcome for these things or anything else you
would like to add.

- Add debugger to website so can insert breakpoints and view which row in your source code is currently being executed.
- Replace favicon with a proper logo.
- Fix needing a newline after a comment if it's the last thing in your program. (Lexer bug, should be a fairly easy
  change in grammar.pest)
- Improve performance of TS runtime. Currently, no real effort has been put into making it fast.
- Add better error messages to the parser.
- A "maximum update depth exceeded" error gets printed to the console whenever you run your program. Someone who knows
  React better than me might want to look into this and tell me what I am doing wrong. Probably has to do with me
  misusing useEffect in BytecodeInterpreter.